

	NOTES FOR POSIX-COMPATIBLE C LIBRARY DIRECTORY-ACCESS ROUTINES


Older UNIX C libraries lacked support for reading directories, so historically
programs had knowledge of UNIX directory structure hard-coded into them.  When
Berkeley changed the format of directories for 4.2BSD, it became necessary to
change programs to work with the new structure.  Fortunately, Berkeley designed
a small set of directory access routines to encapsulate knowledge of the new
directory format so that user programs could deal with directory entries as an
abstract data type.  (Unfortunately, they didn't get it quite right.)  The
interface to these routines was nearly independent of the particular
implementation of directories on any given UNIX system; this has become a
particularly important requirement with the advent of heterogeneous network
filesystems such as NFS.  The availability of C for other systems led to the
porting of this package beyond the UNIX domain; the system-independent
interface works well for non-UNIX environments also.  The AmigaDOS version
was originally implemented for Lattice C by Mike Meyers and was subsequently
overhauled by Doug Gwyn.  Public-domain implementations for Aztec C65, GS/OS,
and MS-DOS are also available.

It has consequently become possible to write portable applications that search
directories by restricting all directory access to use these new interface
routines.  The sources supplied here are a total rewrite of Meyers' code,
conforming as closely to published standards as possible, and are in the
PUBLIC DOMAIN to encourage their widespread adoption.  They support access to
AmigaDOS directories by one process at a time per directory.  These routines
should be added to the standard C library on AmigaDOS systems, and all
existing applications should be changed to use this interface.  Once this is
done (and similar effort expended in the UNIX community), there should be no
portability problems between UNIX and AmigaDOS due to differences in underlying
directory structures.  (When porting your applications to UNIX systems, you can
carry the corresponding UNIX package around with you.)

One annoying compatibility problem has arisen along the way, namely that the
original Berkeley interface used the same name, struct direct, for the new data
structure as had been used for the original UNIX filesystem directory record
structure.  This name was changed by the IEEE 1003.1 (POSIX) Working Group to
"struct dirent" and was picked up for SVR3 under the new name; it is also the
name used in this portable package.  I believe it is necessary to bite the
bullet and adopt the new non-conflicting name.  Code using a 4.2BSD-compatible
package needs to be slightly revised to work with this new package, as follows:
	Change
		#include <ndir.h>	/* Ninth Edition UNIX */
	or
		#include <sys/dir.h>	/* 4.2BSD */
	or
		#include <dir.h>	/* old BRL System V emulation */
	to
		#include <sys/types.h>	/* if not already #included */
		#include <dirent.h>

	Change
		struct direct
	to
		struct dirent

	Change
		(anything)->d_namlen
	to
		strlen( (anything)->d_name )

There is a minor compatibility problem in that the closedir() function was
originally defined to have type void, but IEEE 1003.1 changed this to type int.
However, the difference does not affect most applications, because they seldom
test the return from closedir().

Error handling is not completely satisfactory, due to the variety of possible
failure modes in a general setting.  For example, the rewinddir() function
might fail, but there is no good way to indicate this.  I have tried to
follow the specifications in IEEE 1003.1 and the SVID as closely as possible,
but there are minor deviations in this regard.  Applications should not rely
too heavily on exact failure mode semantics.

Please do not change the new standard interface in any way, as that would
defeat the major purpose of this package!  (It's okay to alter the internal
implementation if you really have to.)

Sorry, no installation instructions are available (I don't use AmigaDOS).  All
I can say is that dirent.h should be installed wherever the standard headers
reside and dirent.c should be compiled and the resulting object added to the
system C library.

This implementation is provided by:

	Douglas A. Gwyn
	U.S. Army Research Laboratory
	AMSRL-CI-CC
	Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD 21005-5067

	(410)278-8945

	Gwyn@ARL.Army.Mil

This is UNSUPPORTED, use-at-your-own-risk, free software in the public domain.
However, I would appreciate hearing of any actual bugs you find in this
implementation and/or any improvements you come up with.
